[ty] Implement TypedDict runtime narrowing via an empty TypedDict (#25851)
astral-sh/ruff: crates/ty_python_semantic/resources/mdtest/narrow/isinstance.md

        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Covariant[str] & ~Top[Invariant[Unknown]]
```

> For mutable dictionary runtime checks, we include an open empty `TypedDict` alongside the ordinary

Reviewer: "mutable dictionary runtime checks" is IMO an odd way to phrase this, I would say something like "`isinstance(..., dict)` checks"

top-materialized dictionary constraint. Every `TypedDict` is a subtype of this empty schema. For

> `Mapping`, the extra arm simplifies away because `TypedDict` is already statically compatible:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Mapping`, the extra arm simplifies away because the empty `TypedDict` is already a subtype:
```

```py
from collections.abc import Mapping, MutableMapping
from typing import TypedDict

class Movie(TypedDict):
    title: str

def _(x: object, y: Movie):
    if isinstance(x, dict):
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Top[dict[Unknown, Unknown]] | <TypedDict with no items>

    if isinstance(x, Mapping):
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Top[Mapping[Unknown, object]]

    if isinstance(x, MutableMapping):
        reveal_type(x)  # revealed: Top[MutableMapping[Unknown, Unknown]] | <TypedDict with no items>

    if isinstance(y, MutableMapping):
        reveal_type(y)  # revealed: Movie
```

When the original type already contains a concrete `TypedDict` arm, runtime narrowing keeps that
arm:

```py
def _(z: int | Movie):
    if isinstance(z, dict):
        reveal_type(z)  # revealed: Movie
    else:
        reveal_type(z)  # revealed: int
```

> When a gradual arm remains after narrowing, the open empty `TypedDict` fallback remains visible too:

Reviewer: This talks about a gradual arm, but the example below shows a TypeVar. That's not a gradual type, though it has some similarities in that it can't simplify easily. It seems fine to test either or both -- but the prose should line up with the example.

```py
from typing import TypeVar

T = TypeVar("T")

def _(value: Movie | T):
    if isinstance(value, dict):
        reveal_type(value)  # revealed: Movie | (T@_ & Top[dict[Unknown, Unknown]]) | (T@_ & <TypedDict with no items>)
```

The empty `TypedDict` arm has a read-only mapping surface. It preserves common dictionary operations
without exposing schema-unsafe mutation:

```py
def takes_dict(value: dict[str, object]) -> None: ...
def use_narrowed_dict(value: object, default: object) -> None:

>     if isinstance(value, dict) and isinstance(default, dict):

Reviewer: It's not clear to me why this test has both `value` and `default`, if they both start with the same type and are narrowed the same way.

        reveal_type(value)  # revealed: Top[dict[Unknown, Unknown]] | <TypedDict with no items>

>         for key in value.keys() & default.keys():

Reviewer: I guess maybe this is why we have both `value` and `default`? But this also seems like an oddly specific thing to test (the intersection of the two `dict_keys`) when we haven't even tested the individual behavior of one `dict_keys`.

>             reveal_type(key)  # revealed: Unknown | str

Reviewer: This `Unknown` is wrong. It's coming from the top materialization of `dict`, so it should be `object`, not `Unknown`. Codex says this is because `dict_top_readonly_projection` takes `specialization.types(db)` while ignoring the materialization-kind from `specialization`, so we drop the top materialization.

            reveal_type(value[key])  # revealed: object
            reveal_type(default[key])  # revealed: object
            reveal_type(default.get(key))  # revealed: object

        reveal_type(value.fromkeys(["a"], 1))  # revealed: dict[str, int]
        reveal_type(reversed(value))  # revealed: Iterator[object]

>         reveal_type(value.copy())  # revealed: dict[Unknown, Unknown] | <TypedDict with no items>

Reviewer: The missing top materialization here also looks wrong, probably same root cause as above.

        value.clear()  # error: [unresolved-attribute]
        takes_dict(value)  # error: [invalid-argument-type]
```

Non-mutating dictionary operators remain valid after runtime narrowing. Directly calling the dunder
currently reports an error because the ordinary `dict` arm does not accept the empty `TypedDict`
arm:

```py
def merge_narrowed_dicts(left: object, right: object) -> None:
    if isinstance(left, dict) and isinstance(right, dict):
        # TODO: Simplify the distributed runtime-dict arms to `dict[Unknown, Unknown]`.
        reveal_type(left | right)  # revealed: dict[Unknown, Unknown] | <TypedDict with no items>
        # TODO: The runtime-dict union should be accepted by `dict.__or__`.
        # error: [invalid-argument-type]

>         reveal_type(left.__or__(right))  # revealed: dict[Unknown, Unknown]

Reviewer: This is a valid non-mutating dictionary operation, so it seems undesirable to accept `left | right` but reject the equivalent `left.__or__(right)` after both values passed `isinstance(..., dict)`. Can we make the ordinary top-dict arm accept the runtime-dictionary union as well, rather than codifying a syntax-dependent false positive?

Author: In order to get this to simplify, I ended up with https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/25851/changes/aa3f2fcfae06a9589a33cf904b2b7df72b7f812c which feels a bit weird.

Author: And https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/25851/changes/a016c0b21b46d8a52ea97e01f641e8ce68ae0f61, also weird.

class CustomDict(dict[int, bytes]): ...

def merge_custom_dict_with_narrowed_dict(custom: CustomDict, value: object) -> None:
    if isinstance(value, dict):
        # TODO: Simplify away the redundant `dict[Unknown, Unknown]` arm.
        reveal_type(custom | value)  # revealed: dict[int | Unknown, bytes | Unknown] | dict[Unknown, Unknown]

>         reveal_type(value | custom)  # revealed: dict[int | Unknown, bytes | Unknown] | dict[Unknown, Unknown]

Reviewer: I think the `Unknown` in the `int | Unknown` and `bytes | Unknown` here are also wrong, but are coming from a separate pre-existing bug, where `infer_map_impl` (lines 2901-2903) is also wrongly pulling out `specialization.types(self.db)` without respecting the materialization kind.
